OSSMDOC-381: Federation configure export/import. (#35973)
openshift/openshift-docs: modules/ossm-federation-config-import.adoc

////
This module included in the following assemblies:
* service_mesh/v2x/ossm-federation.adoc
////

[id="ossm-federation-config-import_{context}"]
= Importing a service into a federated mesh

Importing services lets you explicitly specify which services exported from another mesh should be accessible within your service mesh.

//Insert ImportedServiceSet diagram here

You use an `ImportedServiceSet` resource to select services for import. Only services exported by a mesh peer and explicitly imported are available to the mesh. Services that you do not explicitly import are not made available within the mesh.

* You can select services by namespace or name.
* You can use wildcards to select services, for example, to import all the services that were exported to the namespace.

> * You can select services for export using a label selector, which may be global to the mesh, or scoped to a specific member namespace.

Author: Deleted bullet point.

////
This module included in the following assemblies:
* service_mesh/v2x/ossm-federation.adoc
////

[id="ossm-federation-config-import_{context}"]
= Importing a service into a federated mesh

> Importing services lets you explicitly specify which services exported from other meshes that you want to allow into your service mesh.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Importing services lets you explicitly specify which services exported from another mesh should be accessible within your service mesh.
```

//Insert ImportedServiceSet diagram here

You use an `ImportedServiceSet` resource to select services for import. Only services exported by a mesh peer and explicitly imported are available to the mesh. Services that you do not explicitly import are not made available within the mesh.

* You can select services by namespace or name.
* You can use wildcards to select services, for example, to import all the services that were exported to the namespace.
* You can select services for export using a label selector, which may be global to the mesh, or scoped to a specific member namespace.
* You can import services using an alias. For example, you can import the `custom-ns/bar` service as `other-mesh/bar`.
// Need non foo/bar example above

> * You can specify a custom domain suffix, which will be appended to the `name.namespace` of an imported service for its fully qualified domain name; for example, `other-mesh/bar.imported.local`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* You can specify a custom domain suffix, which will be appended to the `name.namespace` of an imported service for its fully qualified domain name; for example, `bar.othermesh.imported.local`.
* You can use `importAsLocal` to import the service as if it were a member of the local mesh; for example, `bookinfo/ratings` could be imported as `red-mesh-bookinfo/ratings` and would behave as an additional workload for the `red-mesh-bookinfo/ratings`.
```

The following example is for the `green-mesh` importing a service that was exported by `red-mesh`.

.Example ImportServiceSet
[source,yaml]
----
kind: ImportedServiceSet
apiVersion: federation.maistra.io/v1
metadata:
  name: red-mesh #name of mesh that exported the service
  namespace: green-mesh-system #mesh namespace that service is being imported into
spec:
  importRules: # first matching rule is used
  # import ratings.bookinfo as ratings.bookinfo
  - type: NameSelector
    nameSelector:
      importAsLocal: false
      namespace: bookinfo
      name: ratings
      alias:

>         # services will be imported as <name>.mesh2-bookinfo.svc.mesh1-imports.local

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        # service will be imported as ratings.bookinfo.svc.red-mesh-imports.local
```

        namespace: bookinfo
        name: ratings
----

.ImportServiceSet parameters
[options="header"]
[cols="l, a, a"]
|===
|Parameter |Description |Values
|metadata:
  name:
|Name of the ServiceMeshPeer that exported the service to the federated mesh.
|

|metadata:
  namespace:

> |Name of the ServiceMeshPeer namespace where the service is being imported.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
|Name of the namespace containing the ServiceMeshPeer resource (the mesh system namespace).
```

|

|spec:
  importRules:
    -type:
|Type of rule that will govern the import for the service. The first matching rule found for the service will be used for the import.

> |`NameSelector`, `LabelSelector`

Reviewer: Only `NameSelector` is supported.  There is no `LabelSelector` for `ImportedServiceSet`.

|spec:
  importRules:
    -type: NameSelector:
      namespace:
      name:
|To create a `NameSelector` rule, specify the `namespace` of the service and the `name` of the service, as defined in the `Deployment` resource.
|

|spec:
  importRules:
    -type: NameSelector:
      importAsLocal:

> |Set to `true` to aggregate remote endpoint with local services. When `true`, services will be imported as `<name>.<mesh-system>-<serviceName>.svc.cluster.local`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
|Set to `true` to aggregate remote endpoint with local services. When `true`, services will be imported as `<name>.<namespace>.svc.cluster.local`
```

|`true`/`false`

|spec:
  importRules:
    -type: NameSelector:
      importAsLocal:
      namespace:
      name:
      alias:
|To create a `NameSelector` rule that uses an alias for the service, after specifying the `namespace` and `name` for the service, then specify the alias for the `namespace` and the alias to be used for `name` of the service.
|

> |spec:

Reviewer: The `LabelSelector` documentation needs to be removed.

  importRules:
    -type: LabelSelector
|To create a `LabelSelector` rule, specify the `namespace` of the service and specify the `label` defined in the `Deployment` resource.
|
|===

//PLEASE CHECK MY EXAMPLES

> .Import services with the name "ratings" from any mesh into blue-mesh

Reviewer: Per the next comment...
```suggestion
.Import the "bookinfo/ratings" service from the red-mesh into blue-mesh
```

[source,yaml]
----
kind: ImportedServiceSet
apiVersion: federation.maistra.io/v1
metadata:

>   name: *

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  name: red-mesh
```
Unfortunately, users will need to create an `ImportedServiceSet` resource for each peer.

  namespace: blue-mesh-system
spec:
  importRules:
  - type: NameSelector
    nameSelector:
      importAsLocal: false
      namespace: bookinfo
      name: ratings
----

> .Import all services from the red-mesh's west-data-center namespace into the green-mesh and blue-mesh namespaces.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
.Import all services from the red-mesh's west-data-center namespace into the green-mesh.  These services will be accessible as <name>.west-data-center.svc.red-mesh-imports.local
```

[source,yaml]
----
kind: ImportedServiceSet
apiVersion: federation.maistra.io/v1
metadata:

>   name: red-mesh-system

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  name: red-mesh
```

>   namespace: green-mesh, blue-mesh

Reviewer: Only one namespace may be specified and it must be the same namespace as the ServiceMeshPeer resource
```suggestion
  namespace: greeb-mesh-system
```

////
This module included in the following assemblies:
* service_mesh/v2x/ossm-federation.adoc
////

[id="ossm-federation-config-import_{context}"]
= Importing a service into a federated mesh

Importing services lets you explicitly specify which services exported from other meshes that you want to allow into your service mesh.

//Insert ImportedServiceSet diagram here

> You use an `ImportedServiceSet` resource to select services for import. Only services that have been exported by a mesh peer and also explicitly imported are available to the mesh. Services that you do not explicitly import are not made available within the mesh.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You use an `ImportedServiceSet` resource to select services for import. Only services exported by a mesh peer and explicitly imported are available to the mesh. Services that you do not explicitly import are not made available within the mesh.
```

* You can select services by namespace or name.

> * You can use wildcards to select services, for example,  to import all services that were exported to the namespace.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* You can use wildcards to select services; for example, to import all the services exported to the namespace.
```

* You can select services for export using a label selector, which may  be global to the mesh, or scoped to a specific member namespace.

> * You can import services using an alias, for example, you can import the `custom-ns/bar` service as `other-mesh/bar`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* You can import services using an alias. For example, you can import the `custom-ns/bar` service as `other-mesh/bar`.
```

// Need non foo/bar example above

> * You can specify a custom domain suffix, which will be appended to the `name.namespace` of an imported service for its fully qualified domain name, for example `other-mesh/bar.imported.local`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* You can specify a custom domain suffix, which will be appended to the `name.namespace` of an imported service for its fully qualified domain name; for example, `other-mesh/bar.imported.local`.
```

[source,yaml]
----
kind: ImportedServiceSet
apiVersion: federation.maistra.io/v1
metadata:
  name: red-mesh #name of mesh that exported the service
  namespace: green-mesh-system #mesh namespace that service is being imported into
spec:
  importRules: # first matching rule is used
  # import ratings.bookinfo as ratings.bookinfo
  - type: NameSelector
    nameSelector:
      importAsLocal: false
      namespace: bookinfo
      name: ratings
      alias:
        # services will be imported as <name>.mesh2-bookinfo.svc.mesh1-imports.local
        namespace: bookinfo
        name: ratings
----

.ImportServiceSet parameters
[options="header"]
[cols="l, a, a"]
|===
|Parameter |Description |Values
|metadata:
  name:
|Name of the ServiceMeshPeer that exported the service to the federated mesh.
|

|metadata:
  namespace:
|Name of the ServiceMeshPeer namespace where the service is being imported.
|

|spec:
  importRules:
    -type:
|Type of rule that will govern the import for the service.  The first matching rule found for the service will be used for the import.
|`NameSelector`, `LabelSelector`

|spec:
  importRules:
    -type: NameSelector:
      namespace:
      name:

> |To create a `NameSelector` rule, specify the `namespace` of the service and the `name` of the service as defined in the `Deployment` resource.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
|To create a `NameSelector` rule, specify the `namespace` of the service and the `name` of the service, as defined in the `Deployment` resource.
```
